- Potential issues with base and bounds:
	- Space exists between heap and stack.
	- Wastes this.
	- Also hard to run program that doesn't fit entirely into memory.
- How do we support a large address space?
	- Lots of potential for space loss. 
- Segmentation: have a base and bounds pair for every single logical segment of address space.
	- Continuous portion of address space of particular length.
	- So components like code, stack and heap.
	- Allows OS to place each one of these segments in diff. parts of physical memory and avoid wasting physical memory. 
	- Only used memory is placed within the physical memory.
- To support segmentation: set of base + bound register pairs for every single code section.
- Segmentation fault: memory access on segmented machine to an illegal address.
	- Can't just blindly add offsets.
	- Look at what each part of the virtual address space each component takes up, and subtract address by that, then add to the base.
- How do we know what segment?
	- Use top bits of a virtual address.
	- Use that top bits to access appropriate register, then use the offset and add to the value in that base register. 
	- Issues w/ this:
		- If we have three segments, one segment is unused w/ 2 bits.
		- Using the top many bits also limits the use of the virtual address space (each address space can be of size of the offset).
	- Implicit:
		- If address generated by program counter address within code segment.
		- Address based off of stack/base: stack section.
		- Any other address heap. 
- Need to specify which way the segment grows:
	- this is because stack needs to grow backward (towards lower addresses)
	- heap grows towards larger address
	- bit 0: if negative, bit 1: if positive
	- negative offsets: subtract max segment size from the segment size and add that to the base. 
	- bounds check: ensure abs. value of negative offset less than equal to segment's current size. 
- sharing segments across programs: have protection bits. 
	- specifies what program can modify a particular segment (provides protection if code-segments are set to read only)
	- code segment: read and execute, so this physical segment in memory mapped to multiple virtual address spaces.
	- also need to check if we are following protection (can't be writing to a read only segment).
- coarse-grained: chop up address into large coarse chunks.
- fine-grained: allow for address spaces to consist of large # of smaller segments. 
	- Requires a segment table in memory.
- context switch: save and restore segment registers. 
- what if we need larger heap?
	- library does a system call to grow heap `sbrk()`
	- OS provides more space, updating segment size register to bigger size.
		- request can be rejected
- when allocating a new process: physical memory has little holes of free space that aren't usable.
	- external fragmentation: gaps of space. occurs when total free memory isn't contiguous but there's enough.
	- internal fragmentation: allocation memory is larger than what the process actually needs. 
	- process wants to allocate a 20KB segment, there's enough of this, but not contiguously.
	- solution:
		- compact memory: stop running process, copy data to one contiguous region, change segment register values to point at new locations. 
		- but this is time consuming, and it makes it harder for requests to grow existing segments (since everything is touching). 
		- try fitting allocations for memory w/ regard to blocks (like best-fit, worst-fit, first fit).
- overall issue: segments are variable-sized, free memory gets chopped into odd-sized pieces.
	- model doesn't 